# STAT_835_Projects
Projects for KU class STAT 835 (categorical data)
The breakdown for each problem the homework or final project solves:

Final Project: What are the variables that can predict both the existence and the severity of heart disease?

HW12/Problem 1: Find a loglinear model that describes the data well and interpret the associations. Problem 2: Apply the McNemar test and interpret

HW11/Problem 1: Use the model fit to estimate an odds ratio that describes the effect of length on primary food choice being either invertebrate or other. Problem 2: Fit a cumulative logit model with a proportional odds structure. Interpret the estimated treatment effect and check whether a model allowing interaction provides a significantly better fit.

HW 10/Problem 1: For the horseshoe crabs with color and width predators, add three terms to permit interaction between color and width. Report the prediction equations relating width to the probability of a satellite for each color. Plot and interpret them. Then test whether the interaction model fits better than the simple model without interaction terms. Interpret them and compare their predictive power by finding the correlation R between the observed and fitted values for each model. Problem 2: Same horseshoe crabs data but use weight and width as explanatory variables for the probability of a satellite. Conduct a likelihood-ratio test of H0: B1 = B2 = 0 and interpret. Conduct separate likelihood-ratio tests for the partial effects for each variable. Finally, use purposeful selection to build a model when weight and spine condition and color factors are the potential explanatory variables.

HW 9/Problem 1: Using data from the 23 space shuttle flights before the challenger mission disaster showing the temperature and whether at least one primary O-ring suffered thermal distress, use logistic regression to model the effect of temperature on the probability of thermal distress and interpret the effect. Estimate the probability for thermal distress at 31 degrees, the temperature at the time of the challenger flight. Find the temperature that the estimated probability equal 0.5 and give a linear approximation for the change in the estimated probability per degree increase at that temperature. Interpret the effect of temperature on the odds of thermal distress. Finally, test the hypothesis that temperature has no effect. Problem 2: back to using the horseshoe crabs data, fit a logistic regression model for the probability of a satellite using color alone. Treat color as a nominal-scale factor and report the prediction equation and explain how to use it to compare the first and fourth colors. Conduct a likelihood ratio test of the hypothesis for that model that color has no effect and interpret. Now, treat color in a quantitative manner and obtain a prediction question. Interpret the coefficient of color and test the hypothesis that color has no effect. State the advantage to power and the disadvantage to model lack of fit when we treat color as quantitative instead of qualitative. Finally, using weight and quantitative color as explanatory variables, find standardized coefficients, and interpret.

HW 6/Problem 1: In the years 1904, 1914,..., 2014, the percentage of times the starting pitcher pitched a complete game are listed in the program. The linear probability model has least squares fir Phat(Y=1) = 0.6930 - 0.0662x, where x = number of decades since 1904. Interpret -0.0662. Sub x = 12 in the prediction equation and predict for 2024. The ML fit yields 0.034. Which is more plausible and why? Problem 2: Test H0: uA = uB by conducting a Wald or likelihood ratio test of H0: B = 0 and interpret. Then construct a 95% confidence interval uB/uA.

HW 5/Problem 1: A GSS that cross classified income in thousands of dollars by job satisfaction for black Americans produced a 4x4 table. Test independence of job satisfaction and income using X^2. Interpret and explain the deficiency of this test for these data. Find the standardized residuals and check to see if they suggest any association pattern. Then conduct a test that treats the variables in a quantitative manner, using scores (3, 10, 20, 35) for income and (1, 3, 4, 5)for job satisfaction. Explain why results differ so much from the first part.

HW 4/Problem 1: Goes over the difference between odds and probability. Problem 2: Test the null hypothesis of independence between political party identification and race and interpret. Use standardized residuals to describe the evidence. Finally, partition chi-squared into two components, the first of which compares the races on the (Democrat, Republican) choice. Interpret the quite difference results for the two cases.
